Airflow was built with the intention of allowing it to users to
extend and customize its functionality through plugins.
The most common types of user-creator plug-ins for airflow are operators and hooks.
As we review in lesson one;
operators define the atomic steps of work that make up a DAG.
If we think about the bike share DAG we've been working on over the past few lessons,
there are a couple of functions in our code that we may want to reuse.
First, we're using a Python operator in two places.
Both uses of this operator load data from S3 into Redshift,
both of the loading functions we've written are very similar and are
likely a great candidate to be replaced by a custom operator.
So again, we have two functions that load our trips data and stations data.
You may have noticed the code for those two functions are almost identical,
we can probably take
these two nearly identical functions and turn it into a reusable operator.
Second, when we add a data quality checks to our DAG
to verify the presence of data we built a pretty useful function.
There's a good chance that many future DAGs
are going to need exactly this kind of functionality.
This is another good candidate to be replaced by custom operator.
Replacing those usages of Python operator in our DAGs
with custom operators can simplify the code and our DAG definition.
Another big benefit is the next time we or somebody else in
your organization needs to perform the same function,
they only need to use the operator we
defined rather than duplicating work we've already done.
So here you can see I've replaced the usage of Python operator with
an S3 to Redshift operator and this is something we're going to define here shortly.
Same deal with has rows operator.
You can see we've replaced Python operator with
a has rows operator and we've actually
removed some of the description of what was happening here.
This used to say S3 to Redshift and this used to say data quality check.
What we've done is we've actually taken the logic that we were defining
in the Python operator and moved it into our custom operator.